---
publish: false 
---

# Thursday, August 11, 2022

< [[2022-08-10|Yesterday]]

## Daily Review

### 📕 How are you feeling today?
- Dident sleep too we'll just came upstairs, brushed teeth and crashed last night then woke up an hour later awake thinking about work or obsidian or something. 
- Got back to bed after but feeling tired today. 


### 💡 Day Log
- Did Thai class today and added some notes to Travel section of [[Learning Thai Lvl 1]]
- Really enjoyed my experience using obsidian today during Thai class, having the same note opened twice. 
- Things 3 is also going well I feel I can review the days tasks much better than I previously could in Amplenote. 
- Completed 90% of todays tasks although I was a bit slow at the end of the day. Ended up working late and finished around 6:50. 
- Got one of the UltraCC people to help with my Seedbox today. Looks like it is fixed now. Need to still dedupe though. 



### 🗓 Tomorrow, I need to...

 [fix the automation that's not turning off reduce white point](things:///show?id=AmT9pgd6CdaYcQUg1AisDr)

 [Remove task log heading from daily note ](things:///show?id=KsMg9dZZ2PK6rA8nPR28cQ)

##  Task Log

---

[[2022-08-12|Tomorrow]] >

## Task Log
### Caliper Global
- [x] [Catch up on slack](things:///show?id=ETc9ucxeWijH6rxZwaTUpo) #medium #@phil
- [x] [Go through new logins and start reconciling July](things:///show?id=NeMrfZ7wQWVBGqCd9GejtV)
- [x] [Email the team to establish a suitable time to talk about bottlenecks, issues with systems, task management, productivity, time management, documentation etc.](things:///show?id=CwFLSs4sXqgmevW7PgajMw)
- [x] [Ad notion progress bars to projects](things:///show?id=J8rSSSffL4xrLZ1SZGBqb4)
- [x] [FOCUS ON CLEARING WORK FROM OLD CLIENTS NOT STARTING NEW ONES](things:///show?id=6oK7igsA69TEh9ZmFrexQc) #high #@phil
- [x] [Make up some logos per Laticia’s canva examples](things:///show?id=6ncJzCHW3DhFBcMDtwQo2Y)
- [x] [Schedule Puqpress Instagram](things:///show?id=RgM7YdkY57rgKzmwQm5EJh) #high #@phil
- [x] [Spend 60min on Project](things:///show?id=Cw3qo7cEfW5wB8kGvQnGHg)
- [x] [Make filters collapsible for blog](things:///show?id=HXAZ8FccNDkgrAVf3xUaKY) #high
- [x] [Check Socials for comments](things:///show?id=Jyk4HzwBi2KZcmX1UxZQYP) #medium #@phil
- [x] [Fix headings not showing on OUR WORK cards interactions](things:///show?id=D6uphBGeVZDRxtP6vb4KZE) #high
- [x] [Send through Another spread sheet for marble tiles, marble mosaic tiles, cobblestone, sandstone SEO](things:///show?id=9nRoNdAFsevXiY5Hn62uEX)
- [x] [Fix labyrinth & quote on OUR STORY page](things:///show?id=JK1XDaq5TbBVK4NMJRTDKd) #high
- [x] [Login to Albion and claim rewards.](things:///show?id=tCCQjHK9ovhEWMZuMH2r9)
- [x] [Phil to Help Rachel 60min](things:///show?id=7eH5uEUEMXBPq5xiDFdzwN)
- [x] [Report to Phil on Project Updates](things:///show?id=pXmjiiuxwTxn6mw9c7bzd)
- [x] [Reply to Laticia](things:///show?id=43CDuMAV689arx2V4ivrWW) #@rachel
- [x] [Our Work review & improve work sections](things:///show?id=MDWN5Qp9VavPiDkztfYRan)
- [x] [Add fresh copy of Nicole test vault to obsidian and sync.](things:///show?id=UxW2xmF1z8TRygharNQo67)
### Phil
- [x] [Reply to Tee Message](things:///show?id=HHxnReHiktJLp8KPxmvzDr)
- [x] [Watch a video from the Buddhist Videos Starter Pack](things:///show?id=RTBXmeyHvRsumbhLzgRdFn)
	https://www.amplenote.com/notes/bcd2a902-0030-11ed-a6ae-32a80660fe6e
- [x] [SEEDBOX Not Syncing to DRIVE!](things:///show?id=KB6p714hzNjaAJjmN9zLrw)
### Harvey
- [x] [Check Harvey’s work and reply to brief](things:///show?id=885PbpTKLvpFTMG2yQTieT)