# 2022-08-04

## 📕 How are you feeling today?
-   Had a bit of an unfortunate situation with Rach this morning. She worked on Thai stuff I worked on [Obsidian](https://www.amplenote.com/notes/a4aada7e-126f-11ed-b96e-7eb08a2c5cd0) and I got annoyed at having to learn reading and writing Thai already. It’s too much for me to focus on right now.
-   Ended up not going to Thai class. Talking it out and finished work at 5pm. It’s been a great day other then that.


## 💡 Log
   Figured out we can just share a things 3 account which makes life easier. We’ll see how it works in practise.
-   Obsidian Sync works great so the syncing element of Rach and I using obsidian is looking likely. Now to experiment with it a bit more and setup my templates.


## Task Log
- [x] [Test Meeting Task](things:///show?id=GgoWf6KQJpw5zxFgAa9tWW) #logbook/⏰-15m #logbook/@phil
	obsidian://open?vault=vault&file=reviews%2Fdaily%2F2022-08-03
- [x] [Test Meeting Task](things:///show?id=GithwUm4J5aXqijhFDYeGW) #logbook/⏰-30m #logbook/@rachel
	obsidian://open?vault=vault&file=reviews%2Fdaily%2F2022-08-03
- [x] [As well as this](things:///show?id=Emh1uM6QnTPtCea3xdE99N) #logbook/@phil
- [x] [Send templates to Pam](things:///show?id=C11UNFbJzeNChETcMsZNrC) #logbook/@phil
- [x] [Go this todo](things:///show?id=MJtN9bY61YMAJc294mucjM) #logbook/@phil
- [x] [And fix this - With extra info... !p1](things:///show?id=DvxhYwehUzWuWgzuoUj4dg) #logbook/@phil
- [x] [Plan this to-do for later](things:///show?id=LDxxs7u6ZBPNsrpDjce7gh)
	Click the calendar button again, but this time, choose a date in the future. It will automatically appear in your Today list when the date comes.
	Upcoming to-dos are grouped together at the bottom of each section.
- [x] [Create a project](things:///show?id=VJyYvdYHFsJTE4kUFTXb35)
	On to bigger things! At the bottom of the sidebar, click “+ New List” to add a project of your own.
- [x] [Organize with areas](things:///show?id=Mt2SFHTC5ipqMexhJ9Vn99)
	Create an area for each sphere of your life, such as Work, Family, Finance, and so on. You can drop your projects into them to stay organized.
	At the bottom of the sidebar, click “+ New List” to create one.
	Unlike projects, areas are never completed.
- [x] [Read Thing on Obsidian](things:///show?id=8bRMsAM5UGZ3wKwZuZv1hc)
	https://community.folivora.ai/t/i-just-wrote-a-script-to-create-calendar-events-based-on-things-tasks/21482
### Phil
- [x] [Go poop](things:///show?id=QzyM7AvLXNv8Gh5wvTbkR2)