## Metadata
* URL: [https://www.justonecookbook.com/homemade-miso-soup/](https://www.justonecookbook.com/homemade-miso-soup/)
* Published Date: 2022-06-14
* Author: [[Namiko Chen]]

## Highlights
* What is Miso Soup? Most Japanese meals are served with a small bowl of steamed rice and a traditional Japanese soup called Miso Soup (味噌汁). At its most basic, miso soup is simply made of 3 components: * Dashi (Japanese soup stock) * Miso (soybean paste) * Soup ingredients, such as tofu and wakame seaweed Depending on the region, season, and personal preference, you can find many varieties of miso soup enjoyed in Japan. In addition to the classic tofu and wakame combination that I show you today, we also use different savory ingredients such as veggies, meat, and seafood to make the soup. That’s why we can never get bored with it.
* How to Make Classic Miso Soup with Tofu and Wakame
* Step 1: Make Dashi (Japanese Soup Stock) Dashi (だし・出汁) is Japanese stock and the base of many Japanese dishes. To make authentic Japanese miso soup, you will have to use dashi as the soup broth and not any other types of broth. Miso soup is not miso soup without dashi.
* 💡Pro Tip
* Make Dashi
* If you’re still reluctant to make dashi from scratch, try a dashi packet instead of dashi powder.
* 💡Pro Tip Japanese cooking requires dashi in many recipes. You can make a big batch of dashi and store it in the refrigerator for up to 3-5 days or in the freezer for 2 weeks and it’s always ready to go. Use dashi for different recipes throughout the week. With dashi on hand, you can make the basic miso soup in under 5 minutes! Step 2: Add Miso Paste
* Miso (味噌), fermented soybean paste, is made from soybeans, grains (steamed rice or barley), salt, and kojiculture (麹, a fermentation starter).
* Types of Miso There are many different types of miso in the market. In the US, most miso available at the mainstream grocery stores goes by colors, such as white miso (shiro miso), red miso (aka miso), and yellow miso. Read this post if you want to deep dive into miso. If you are interested in making your own miso at home, read about it here.
* Each miso paste and brand varies in saltiness and flavor. When it comes to miso soup, there is no “right” miso for your miso soup. All you need to remember is to adjust the amount according to taste. You can also mix two to three miso brands/types together for more complex flavors. If you have good quality miso, enjoy its unique characters by using just one type.
* My favorite miso is this Kodawattemasu from Hikari Miso (slow-aged red koji miso) as the flavor is the most versatile. It has a more rounded character that goes well with any ingredients.
* 💡Pro Tip A typical Japanese miso soup bowl holds about 200 ml of liquid. As a general rule, we add 1 tablespoon (18 g) of miso per one miso soup bowl (200 ml dashi).
* How to Dissolve Miso Put the miso inside a ladle and slowly add the dashi into the ladle. Stir the miso mixture with chopsticks and let chunks of miso dissolve completely.
* Step 3: Add Tofu
* There are three reasons why you add tofu last when you make miso soup with tofu. 1. Silken tofu may break when you dissolve the miso paste in the soup. 2. If you heat the tofu too much, the water in the tofu will escape and it will become hard. 3. Tofu is edible (and delicious) out of the package (try Chilled Tofu and Tofu Salad recipes) and does not require cooking. You just need to reheat it.
* Two Important Cooking Tips * Add miso paste to the soup stock right before serving. You can cook the ingredients in advance, but wait to add miso until you’re ready to serve. * Never boil miso soup once miso is added because it loses nutrients, flavors, and aromas. If you turn off the heat right before boiling, this temperature (203ºF/95ºC) is considered the most fragrant stage for miso soup. And by the time you are ready to enjoy the soup, it is an ideal temperature (167ºF/75ºC) for drinking.
* Let’s Make Miso Soup with Various Ingredients Besides tofu and wakame seaweed, you can add so many seasonal and year-round ingredients to your miso soup. Here are some simple ones: * Dense & root vegetables – carrot, daikon, potato, onion, gobo, taro, turnip, kabocha * Soft & leafy vegetables – spinach, cabbage, leeks, eggplant, okra * Mushrooms – shiitake mushrooms, enoki mushrooms, shimeji mushrooms. * Tofu – aburaage (fried tofu pouch), koya dofu (freeze-dried tofu), yuba * Seaweed – wakame, hijiki * Noodles: cooked somen noodles
* 💡Pro Tip For hard and dense root vegetables, start cooking them in cold dashi until they become tender, 5-10 minutes (depending on the vegetable and how it’s cut). For leafy vegetables, cook them in the simmering dashi for a few minutes. For mushrooms and tofu, cook them until heated after you add miso to the dashi.
* Health Benefits of Miso Soup Japanese people drink miso soup daily as we believe this delicious, healing soup is a gateway to great health. Just like green tea, you can safely say miso soup is the elixir of the Japanese diet. Here are just some of the health benefits of miso soup: 1. Helps maintain a healthy digestive system With its beneficial probiotics, drinking miso soup helps to improve your overall digestion and absorption of nutrients. 2. Good source of nutrients Miso is rich in minerals as well as copper, manganese, protein, Vitamin K, and zinc. Therefore, drinking a bowl of miso soup a day is like taking a natural supplement for your health. 3. Good for bones
* Miso soup provides many bone-building minerals like calcium, magnesium, and manganese, which helps to reduce the risk of developing osteoporosis. 4. Improve your heart The natural chemical compounds in miso, such as Vitamin K2, linoleic acid and saponin, are known to reduce the risk of heart disease and lower cholesterol. To enjoy the amazing health benefits of miso soup, you will want to make your own miso soup. The instant miso soup will not be as good since they tend to contain higher sodium and may include other preservatives.