## Metadata
* URL: [https://parakeeto.com/blog/how-to-calculate-profitability-for-your-marketing-agency-clients-and-projects-the-definitive-guide/](https://parakeeto.com/blog/how-to-calculate-profitability-for-your-marketing-agency-clients-and-projects-the-definitive-guide/)
* Published Date: 2021-10-07
* Author: [[Marcel Petitpas]]

## Highlights
* service businesses like agencies have few barriers to entry. But they’re one of the more challenging business models to scale. They are complex in nature and aren’t as straightforward as most other “product” focussed businesses. In order to scale, it’s critically important to solve profitability issues and take control of your efficiency when it comes to earning revenue. If you’re not managing and calculating profitability correctly, selling more services can actually make cash flow problems worse, and even become the reason you have to shut things down.
* The Industry is Changing – The Switch to Flat Rates & Value-Based Pricing
* The era of the billable hour is largely behind us. Most agencies have moved away from billing clients for a time in favor of fixed-rate, flat retainer or value-based pricing models. While these models generally lend themselves to ultimately bringing in higher fees for the same work, they introduce a new level of risk to providing services that the billable hour often helped mitigate. If a project wasn’t scoped properly, the client made additional requests or an unforeseen expense came up – it was often passed on to the client as extra hours billed.
* However, in a flat fee world, the importance of measuring what it takes to deliver outcomes to clients has become even more important. We have to make sure your marketing agency profit margins are protected, and the benefit of pricing on value is actually achieved.
* We generally like to benchmark profitability for the entire agency using EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation & Amortization)
* Which is a fancy way to say, money left over after all the expenses are paid, and before tax.
* We mostly look at it this way because it levels the playing field as different parts of the world have different tax systems, and when the accountants start optimizing for tax efficiency, the books can get extremely convoluted.
* So, how much profit should you have in your agency at the end of the year? The industry average is right around 10% What has traditionally been considered healthy is 15-20% What is generally required to cash-flow explosive growth is 25-30% I always encourage my clients to shoot for 25%
* Note: These are net profit targets AFTER paying the founders/owners a market rate (which should be no less than $100,000) but BEFORE paying out any additional bonuses that are not a part of regular compensation for the team and owners.
* net profitability at the client or project level isn’t something we generally recommend trying to measure. Instead, we like to focus on Gross Profit on projects as it’s a better reflection of delivery efficiency and allows us to benchmark subsections of our business against each other and against the industry. It’s also much easier to track accurately, and more often.
* Gross Margin is another important profitability metric to track because it tells a story about how efficient our agency is at earning revenue, which is a reflection of how good our processes are for delivering work to clients without going over budget.
* We calculate Gross Margin by looking at our revenue and subtracting all of the costs required to earn that revenue. At the Client or Project Level, this means figuring out your AGI by subtracting Pass-Through Expenses (often called COGS) from revenue. * Examples of Pass Through Expenses (often called COGS) are: * Travel related to production * Any other hard marked up or pass-through expenses.
* This should help you understand the AGI (Agency Gross Income) on a project or client, which is the actual revenue that client represents for your agency, and the revenue you need to earn with your operations. Once you understand AGI for a given project, client or time period, you can then figure out your Gross Margin relative to AGI by subtracting the cost of earning that revenue. On a project or client level, that’s usually going to be done by calculating your Labor Costs as a function of Time * Cost-per-hour At a broader agency level, you’ll be looking at: * Payroll expenses associated to delivery * Shared delivery expenses like: * Design software (figma, canva, adobe suite) * Stock footage libraries * Shared Hosting * etc.
* set your Net Margin target, assess the amount of overhead required for your business model and add them together. For example, if your target is 25% Net Margin, Your overhead is 20% of Adjusted Gross Income, then you’ll want to target at least a gross margin of 55% (100% – 45%) to make that goal attainable.
* Gross Margin at the client or project level, you’re going to be setting the target slightly above what you expect to achieve at an agency-wide level. You can expect to lose 10-20% of that gross margin annually to non-billable time, time-off and shared production expenses. This is because your calculation for Employee Cost Per Hour should be based on Gross Capacity, not adjusted or billable capacity.
* Part 1: Calculating Costs and Gross Margin on Projects & Clients
* What often gets overlooked is that in a service business, revenue needs to be earned after it’s sold. That means people need to spend time doing the work and delivering things to clients, which means that earning revenue costs money.
* How much money it costs you depends almost entirely on how much time needs to be invested. The formula for Gross Margin is as follows: Delivery Costs/AGI = Gross Margin Where Delivery Costs = The cost of earning revenue, usually in terms of labor And where AGI = Total Revenue minus Pass-Through Expenses (often called COGS)
* How to Calculate Pass-Through Expenses and Adjusted Gross Income (AGI)
* The first step in this process is to subtract Pass-Through Expenses from your revenue – this will show you the Adjusted Gross Income (AGI) on your clients and projects. This is the amount of revenue from a project that actually belongs to you, and is earned by the work your team is doing.
* Examples of Pass-Through Expenses would be:
* Stock images * Outsourced Work (contractors/freelancers) * Website Templates * Equipment rentals * Travel costs related to production * Any other cost that passes through you and into another vendor in order to deliver work to the client. (These may or may not be marked up – either way, it doesn’t affect this math)
* How to Calculate Labor Costs on Project & Clients
* We do this simply by taking all of the time logged against the project or client and multiplying it by the Cost-Per-Hour of the employees involved.
* How to Calculate Gross Margin on Projects and Clients The last step is to subtract Labor Costs from Adjusted Gross Income (AGI) to get to our Gross Margin.
* How to Calculate Gross Margin on Projects and Clients The last step is to subtract Labor Costs from Adjusted Gross Income (AGI) to get to our Gross Margin. Example of Gross Margin calculation: Total Project Revenue $100,000 Adjusted Gross Revenue (AGI) $65,000 Labor Costs $14,111.25 Gross Margin**$50,888.75****Gross Margin (%)** 78.2% Note: * Notice that Gross Margin is being calculated relative to AGI, not topline revenue. This makes it a viable way to measure earning efficiency accross multiple projects, and actually compare them fairly to one another regardless of how much of the work is being outsourced to external vendors.
* Freelancers $5,000 Ad Spend $20,000 AGI**$65,000** II – How to Calculate Labor Costs on Project & Clients