
# Yilix’s Backstory

Yilix is an 80-year-old Artificer Rock Gnome who was born and raised in the city of **Baldur's gate**. From a young age, he was encouraged by his parents to ask questions and learn about the world around him. Yilix loved to frequent the **Hall of Wonders** (the Gondite museum in a town full of inventions set up for public display) where he liked to bring with him some parchment and a quill in order to sketch and draw inspiration from the amazing inventions within its museum.

Yilix’ is the middle child and has 2 other siblings (an older brother named **Yexim** and a younger sister called **Alixa**). His parents (who are originally from Lantan) are clerics of the Gondite faith based in the **High House of Wonders in** Baldurs Gate, which is the biggest temple to Gond in the Forgotten Realms. His older brother Yexim followed in the footsteps of their parents and has also become a cleric of Gond, however, Yilix and his sister wanted a different path in life. Yilix’s sister hated city life and was always drawn to nature, she left home at the age of 28 to learn more about spirits and the nearby forest this journey lead her far north to the Neverwinter Woods.

Yilix’s parents could tell that he enjoyed tinkering and inventing from a young age and encouraged him to ask questions and assist other crafters in the workshops of the High House of Wonders. In his 20s Yilix became very curious about the island of Lantan once he read some books on the amazing inventions created there in the name of Gond and the power of smoke powder weapons which seemed to have become a secret export of the Lantanese in recent years.

This fascination with Lantan drove Yilix’s parents to contact some family friends and connections in the Gondite community in order to send Yilix to pursue his fascination with the island and to further his creativity and knowledge to better serve Gond. Several months later, after Yilix was granted a Passage to Lantan￼, Yilix packed his bags with all his scrolls, notes, and tools to begin his long journey to Lantan by road and boat.

In Lantan he initially stayed with close friends of his family. He was flabbergasted by all the wonderful inventions and powerful creations of the Lantanese people as well as all of the fascinating books on the technology available in the libraries there, he often wrote to his family in Bauldurs gate and his sister to tell them of the things he was learning and inventing. He would spend the mornings reading book after book at the library, and his evenings tinkering at the workshops of the temples of Gond. Yilix was always a practitioner of the Gondite faith, he just saw a more inventive future ahead of him than what life in the clergy could offer. After a few years, he came across the work of a gnome inventor known as Vi from the world of Eberron. This lead Yilix to learn that there are many amazing places to visit in this multiverse and that he was a long way away from finding his place in the world and acquiring the skills he dreamed of possessing. A few days later after asking around about The gnome Vi he learned of a branch of Vi’s business in Lantan where he enquired for work, this lead him to become an apprentice of a Dwarf named **Dulan Dreamforge** an Artificer studied under Vi in Eberron. Fast forward several years Yilix was getting the itch to see more of the world in order to gain more insight and inspiration for future inventions that he wanted to work on. Using his newfound Artificer skills he found work as an airship technician and proceeded to continue in this line of work for a couple of years. Yilix loved talking with the travellers on the airships he worked on and found that he could also make a good side income selling his inventions to them. This insight lead him to quit his job as an Airship tech so he could embark on an entrepreneurial journey of travelling by land and setting up shop for several months in each town or city he came across.

He started this journey by first visiting his family in **Baldurs Gate** and staying with them for a few months before embarking on the road north, as he learned that his sister was based in the **Misty Forest** near **Waterdeep**. After many months on the road and in small villages, Yilix met up with his sister **Alixa** who was now a Druid of the moon and an apprentice guardian of the Misty Forest. The two of them caught up for a few weeks and Yilix enjoyed seeing that his sister has finally found her place in this world. Yilix also learned many things about the city of Neverwinter and the Neverwinter Woods nearby which lead him to continue his journey north. Yilix spent some time at Waterdeep where he was based trade centre. He also spent some time in the towns along the sword coast road before finally ending up in Neverwinter where he stayed and worked there for a year. He liked the energy and spent many of his evenings in deep discussion with the students of the Wizarding school there. Yilix considered settling in this city and found its library to be full of interesting knowledge. However, during the end of his stay, Yilix learned of a job opportunity in the town of **Phandalin** which was being set up as the mining capital of the region and required someone of his skills to set up equipment there. He decided it was time to hit the road again in search of coins in to fund his latest and greatest invention yet. He packed his bag with some trinkets to sell on the road, equipped his modified Scale Mail armour and bracers and started his journey.

In Phandalin he spent a week setting up the advanced mining machinery and found himself in a tavern late one evening pondering his next move while working on the blueprints of his next big invention...